---
title: "Parameter selection with the Hotelling observer in linear iterative image reconstruction for breast tomosynthesis"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2018-03-07-spie
excerpt: 'We explored a problem in efficient CT reconstruction.'
date: 2018-03-07
venue: 'SPIE Proceedings'
paperurl: 'https://jacob-roth.github.io/files/proc_spie.pdf'
citation: 'Sean D. Rose, Jacob Roth, Cole Zimmerman, Ingrid Reiser, Emil Y. Sidky, Xiaochuan Pan. &quot;Parameter selection with the Hotelling observer in linear iterative image reconstruction for breast tomosynthesis.&quot; <i>SPIE Proceedings</i>. (2018). https://doi.org/10.1117/12.2293805'
---
In this work we investigate an efficient implementation of a region-of-interest (ROI) based Hotelling observer (HO) in the context of parameter optimization for detection of a rod signal at two orientations in linear iterative image reconstruction for DBT. Our preliminary results suggest that ROI-HO performance trends may be efficiently estimated by modeling only the 2D plane perpendicular to the detector and containing the X-ray source trajectory. In addition, the ROI-HO is seen to exhibit orientation dependent trends in detectability as a function of the regularization strength employed in reconstruction. To further investigate the ROI-HO performance in larger 3D system models, we present and validate an iterative methodology for calculating the ROI-HO. Lastly, we present a real data study investigating the correspondence between ROI-HO performance trends and signal conspicuity. Conspicuity of signals in real data reconstructions is seen to track well with trends in ROI-HO detectability. In particular, we observe orientation dependent conspicuity matching the orientation dependent detectability of the ROI-HO.

[Download](https://jacob-roth.github.io/files/proc_spie.pdf)

Sean D. Rose, Jacob Roth, Cole Zimmerman, Ingrid Reiser, Emil Y. Sidky, Xiaochuan Pan. "Parameter selection with the Hotelling observer in linear iterative image reconstruction for breast tomosynthesis." <i>SPIE Proceedings</i>. (2018). [0.1117/12.2293805](https://doi.org/10.1117/12.2293805)
